#sidebar TableOfContents

==OWASP-0801 Code sample==

The ASVS Level 1A requirement OWASP-0801 reads, "Verify that that the application does not output error messages or stack traces containing sensitive data that could assist an attacker, including session id and personal information."

Here is an example of how to use ESAPI for Logger to turn ESAPI's logging reference implementation on, which gets logging "right" by not outputting sensitive data.

{{{ //todo }}}

==Helpful hints when it comes to customizing ESAPI's Logger==

ESAPI for Java allows you to over-ride the user specific messages using your own User or java.security.Principal implementation.

There are a three critical steps that need to be taken to over-ride the ESAPI Log4JLogger:

1)  Please make a copy of http://owasp-esapi-java.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/src/main/java/org/owasp/esapi/reference/ExampleExtendedLog4JLogFactory.java and change the package and the class name (something like com.yourcompany.logging.ExtendedLog4JFactory). This class (not very big at all) gives you the exact “shell” that you will need to over-ride the user message of the ESAPI Log4JLogger.

2)  In your new class, please change the following function to use your user object:
{{{
        public String getUserInfo() {
            return "-EXTENDEDUSERINFO-";
    }
}}}
3)  Change your copy of ESAPI.properties to use your new logging class

The ESAPI.properties entry looks like this now:

ESAPI.Logger=org.owasp.esapi.reference.Log4JLogFactory

Please change it to the following, based on how you renamed your new logging class

ESAPI.Logger=com.yourcompany.logging.ExtendedLog4JFactory

And you should be all set!

PS: The original ESAPI Log4JLogging class used a secure random number as a replacement to logging the session ID. This allowed 
us to tie log messages from the same session together, without exposing the actual session id in the log file. The code looks 
like this, and you may wish to use it in your over-ridden version of getUserInfo.
{{{
HttpServletRequest request = ESAPI.httpUtilities().getCurrentRequest();
if ( request != null ) {
    HttpSession session = request.getSession( false );
    if ( session != null ) {
        sid = (String)session.getAttribute("ESAPI_SESSION");
        // if there is no session ID for the user yet, we create one and store it in the user's session
        if ( sid == null ) {
            sid = ""+ ESAPI.randomizer().getRandomInteger(0, 1000000);
            session.setAttribute("ESAPI_SESSION", sid);
        }
    }
}
}}}
In fact, here is the entire original getUserInfo() implementation (that was tied to the ESAPI request and user object) – 
you may wish to emulate some of this.
{{{
public String getUserInfo() {
    // create a random session number for the user to represent the user's 'session', if it doesn't exist already
    String sid = null;
    HttpServletRequest request = ESAPI.httpUtilities().getCurrentRequest();
    if ( request != null ) {
        HttpSession session = request.getSession( false );
        if ( session != null ) {
            sid = (String)session.getAttribute("ESAPI_SESSION");
            // if there is no session ID for the user yet, we create one and store it in the user's session
            if ( sid == null ) {
                sid = ""+ ESAPI.randomizer().getRandomInteger(0, 1000000);
                session.setAttribute("ESAPI_SESSION", sid);
            }
        }
    }
    
    // log user information - username:session@ipaddr
    User user = ESAPI.authenticator().getCurrentUser();            
    String userInfo = "";
    //TODO - make type logging configurable
    if ( user != null) {
        userInfo += user.getAccountName()+ ":" + sid + "@"+ user.getLastHostAddress();
    }
    
    return userInfo;
}
}}}