#sidebar TableOfContents

==Prerequisites==
 * JDK 1.5 release 22 (1.5.0_22) [http://java.sun.com/javase/downloads/index_jdk5.jsp download here]
 * Eclipse IDE for Java EE Developers 3.3.x or above [http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/ download here]
 * SVN Subclipse Plugin for Eclipse - Instructions on installing Subclipse plugin can be found [http://subclipse.tigris.org/servlets/ProjectProcess?pageID=p4wYuA here]
 * To support the latest versions of Maven, first download GEF [http://wiki.eclipse.org/index.php/GEF_Developer_FAQ#Download_and_Install here]
 * Maven M2Eclipse plugin for Eclipse - You can install the latest version from within Eclipse using the following [http://m2eclipse.sonatype.org/update/ update site]

==Configuration==
 * Create an Eclipse shortcut
 * Right-Click your Eclipse shortcut and select Properties
 * At the end of the line that says Target, add -vm "x" where x is the location of a JDK (e.g., "C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.5.0_22\bin") - This step is necessary for the Maven plugin to work
 * Restart Eclipse using the edited shortcut.

==Importing the ESAPI Source==

If you choose to use the ESAPI SVN code, follow the instructions [http://code.google.com/p/owasp-esapi-java/source/checkout here].  Unless you have been added to the ESAPI project as a contributor, please use the bottom SVN checkout link on the Google Code page (non-SSL).

If you are using subclipse, as recommended, open Eclipse and:
 * Click ''File'' -> ''New'' -> ''Other....''.
 * From the ''SVN Folder'' select '"Checkout Projects from SVN'' (this option will only be available if you have a SVN plugin installed) and hit ''Next >''.
 * Click the ''Create a new repository location'' radio button.
 * If you are not listed as a project contributor, insert ''http://owasp-esapi-java.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/'' as the URL.  If you are listed as a project contributor, check the Google Code page for the URL to use. (Note: if you are a contributor, when prompted for your SVN password, use your Google generated password, available from the Google Code Source page.) 
 * Once the directory structure appears in the window, click the URL at the top to download everything.  Then hit ''Next >''
 * Select your desired project options.  For most people, the default options should be fine. When finished, click ''Next >''.
 * Select your desired workspace options, then click ''Finish''.  The latest ESAPI source files will then be downloaded to your workspace.  This may take a few minutes.
 * After the source code is finished downloading, ensure that the character type of all source code is UTF-8. In Eclipse, right click on the project directory root. At the bottom of the right-click list, choose PROPERTIES. From the PROPERTIES window, select the RESOURCES section (which is selected by default). Ensure that the "Text file encoding" section is set to OTHER->UTF 8. If if it is not, change it and click APPLY->OK.

==Project Setup==

Some configuration may be necessary for ESAPI to compile and build on your system.

ESAPI requires the Java JRE 5.0+

 * Once Java 5.0+ is installed, open the ''Navigator view'' in Eclipse.  If this is currently hidden, from the toolbar click ''Window'' -> ''Show View'' -> ''Navigator''.
 * Right-click on your ESAPI project in the Navigator, mouse over ''Maven'' and click ''Enable Dependency Management''
   * ''Note:'' If Maven is not an option when you right-click on the project, be sure the Maven plugin for eclipse is installed, as described above.
   * ''Note:'' If ''Enable Dependency Management'' is not an option, dependency management is probably already enabled, So this step can be skipped.
 * ''Right-click on the ESAPI project root folder'' in the Navigator view and select ''Properties''.
 * From the left column, select ''Java Build Path''.  Under the ''Libraries'' tab, be sure a JRE or JDK is listed next to ''JRE System Library''.  If there is a red X on next to the JRE, remove the current JRE and click ''Add Library'' and select an alternate JRE.  If you are having trouble figuring out what version the current JRE is, select ''Installed JREs'' and look at the location to which each version is mapped.
 * The Libraries tab should list ''JRE System Library'' and ''Maven Dependencies''.  If anything else is listed, it is not necessary and should be removed.  Maven now handles all dependencies.
 * From the left column, select ''Java Compiler''.  Be sure ''Compiler compliance level'', ''Generated .class files compatibility'', and ''Source compatibility'' are all set to ''1.5''.  
 * Close the properties window.
 * ''Right-click the ESAPI project root folder'' and select ''Refresh''.
 * From the toolbar, select ''Project'' -> ''Clean..'' and select the ESAPI project.  Click ''OK''.
 * If errors remain, select ''Maven'' again, then ''Update Dependencies''.
 * ESAPI should now be compiled.

==Building==

Building ESAPI should be easy with the new Maven integration.

Once your environment is set up, as specified above:
 * Right-Click your ESAPI project root folder
 * Select ''Run As...''
 * Select ''Run Configurations''
 * Double Click "Maven Build" from the options on the left to create a new configuration.
 * Name your configuration at the top.  This will be for building ESAPI without running JUnit tests.
 * The "Base directory" should point to the root of your project
 * The "Goals" field type "package"
 * Any options not mentioned should be left as their default
 * Click "Apply" to save your build configuration
 * Click "Run" to run your configuration

''NOTE: Jars created through building are located in the directory called "target". ''

==Running Demo App==

The ESAPI Demo application has been named ''The ESAPI Swingset''.  More information about Swingset is available [http://www.owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI_Swingset here].