#sidebar TableOfContents

==How to report a bug==

Before reporting a bug, please check:

  * that you followed the installation instructions correctly
  * that you looked at the error log (please include any related messages in your report, or state there are none) 
  * if the suspected bug has already been reported, 
  * if the suspected bug has already been confirmed to be a bug
  * if the suspected bug has already been confirmed to be a bug, and its solutions has been implemented.
  * if the suspected bug has already been confirmed to be a bug, and its solutions has not yet been implemented.

{{{/*todo, add links for each of the above*/}}}

If you still suspect that you have discovered a bug, please email email descriptions of suspected bugs to {{{/*todo*/}}}. Please include the following information:

  * whether it is an error in the ESAPI documentation, 
  * a flaw in the design of ESAPI, a flaw in the implementation of the ESAPI, etc. 
  * a description of the bug's effects, including identifying the portions of the ESAPI that are affected and how those portions are affected. 

==How to report a vulnerability==

Before reporting a vulnerability, please check:

  * if the suspected security flaw has already been reported, 
  * if the suspected security flaw has already been confirmed to be a security flaw
  * if the suspected security flaw has already been confirmed to be a security flaw, and its solutions has been implemented.
  * if the suspected security flaw has already been confirmed to be a security flaw, and its solutions has not yet been implemented.

{{{/*todo, add links for each of the above*/}}}

If you still suspect that you have discovered a vulnerability, please email email descriptions of suspected vulnerabilities to {{{/*todo*/}}}. Please include the following information:

  * whether it is an error in the ESAPI documentation, 
  * a flaw in the design of ESAPI, a flaw in the implementation of the ESAPI, etc. 
  * a description of the security flaw's effects, including identifying the portions of the ESAPI that are affected and how those portions are affected. 